---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 - Process in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-11-22
labels:
  - Blog
  - MIS
---

## My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

One of the greatest habits that I recently developed during this project was reading the error message in the console or browser. As simple as it may appear, I used to ignore the solutions to problems and instead panic. I made coding more difficult for myself than it needed to be because I lacked patience. However, it only took some time to understand the code to carry on with the next steps. 

I also have a better understanding of server.js towards the middle to end of Assignment1. In the beginning, I had a difficult time grasping the purpose of having my server and did not use node in my terminal until I made my invoice. After a few hours of debugging and problems with the server crashing, I concluded that the code was tough because I made it complicated. I learned to make comments before coding to avoid getting sidetracked after deleting unneeded lines and understanding the purpose of data arrays and the connection to server.js.


## I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I need to work on creating conditional statements efficiently so that it’s not too repetitive. This is because having too many loops might be difficult to manage and, in certain cases, unreadable. Another area where I can improve is creating precise variables because I frequently forget what they are supposed to perform. Simple actions that go unnoticed are frequently the key to writing important code, or there will be serious consequences. Furthermore, even though I am not working on the project at the last minute, I would have to be patient with every aspect rather than rushing to think quickly.

I also need to enhance my understanding of the rationale underlying CSS position percentages and pixels, as I typically choose a random number to see which way to go. However, rather than guessing through trial and error, it would be more convenient to visualize and have an estimate of the position's values. Another aim I want to concentrate on is selecting a template for my website. I was so focused on getting the site up and running that I neglected to pay attention to the design.

## I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.

Yes, I learned that taking it easy by looking at the solutions will only make it more difficult for me in the long run. There’s no penalty in making mistakes in the WODs as long as I improve each time and end up getting the desired results. If the process is challenging, then there’s an opportunity for growth and improvement.

##  The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.

Yes, I always learn better hands-on, and the key to completing these labs is to read the directions carefully. Although time goes by too quickly for completion of the labs, I appreciate the detail and explanation poured onto each exercise that helps me learn. After all, the procedures technically describe everything that I should do with the lab and some steps also have code that we can paste to start with the goal of the exercise.

## I feel ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).

Yes, I believe I feel ready to work on the next stage as I have learned to slow down and understand my goals before writing the code. Even though I don’t necessarily know how to have a login and password system yet (so that it leads to the invoice), I do understand the fundamentals of getting started. This is because I haven’t finished my Lab14 as I’m writing this, but I definitely will get it done. After all, the labs and WODs have led me to where I can combine the knowledge and think critically rather than following the same structure.

## I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

It’s quite difficult to discuss the improvements of the class schedule since we do not have time to fit all of our tasks in two sittings per week. Rather, it is the time spent reading and comprehending the material prior to attending class. Since I have a tougher time organizing my schedule, staying focused on class preparation is usually a challenge. However, learning and comprehending code would be a top priority for me in order to meet my class objectives.

Similarly, I'd prefer to spend more time on the Assignments, which would entail starting 1-2 weeks earlier to balance the preparation for the labs. The large projects make sense as a means to wrap up the skills we learned in this session, but the time commitment is still a challenge for me. 

## These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:

Working on the labs hands-on is beneficial for my learning in this class. If we were to do readings and notes on slideshows, then I would not be able to code the way I do today. This is because watching the screencasts is equivalent to taking an extra class to understand the concepts, whilst going into class is a session to put the readings into practice.