---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why MIS? 
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-08-31
labels:
  - E0
  - MIS
  - Information Technology
---

At the age of 7, I would mistakenly fall into traps and download viruses, oblivious to the dangers of the internet. My neighbor, who was an engineer, always fixed my computer. Although I learned to take care of my computer, I never understood how he did it. 

In high school, my curiosity for technology led me to take STEM subjects, but I was more interested in business. However, it was through Shidler that I learned about the management information systems major, which motivated me to seek a career in technology. Now, I am studying ITM 352 to learn about how information systems help with operational decision-making. As I’ve noticed the growth of cloud computing, technology is the key to business survival. 

My life has been shaped by self-taught hobbies, from learning how to produce animations through YouTube tutorials to fixing my mom’s old industrial sewing machine. I discovered that I enjoy the rewarding feeling of solving problems after hours of struggle. This occurred in my past IT classes as well. I knew something was missing during my first two years of college, and it was not taking the first move toward becoming a MIS major.

While only understanding the surface of what MIS is about, I’ve never worked hands-on with IT in the context of business strategies. With this fascination, MIS is also paired well with my marketing major, since both involve gathering and analyzing data. Moreover, I aim to gain technical skills in this class to create access, solve problems, and produce web applications. 

