---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Checkpoint Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-12-07
labels:
  - Blog
  - MIS
---

## Show what each page will look like. The pages do not have to be “functional” but the design should clear. 

Link to: [Video](https://youtu.be/8tA7LB3W0Fc)

## Describe your design for your site’s shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.

My shopping cart is my invoice.html changed to shopping_cart.html. Each product has an “add to cart” button that can be used one at a time. The selected quantities will be accessible in the shopping cart. There is also a navigation bar on every page with a product key that allows users to access products seamlessly without having several html pages. If the quantity is valid, the user will be redirected to the shopping cart where they can make changes or finalize their decision before purchasing the product.

## Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their objects) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in a session.

I will utilize sessions to keep track of how much data the user enters into the session, including the product type, which links to the page of products they were on and the arrays that were selected using the product key. The product’s index and the requested quantity will also be included in the session. 

##  How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?

I haven’t got to this step, but I plan on denying access to the final purchase if the user isn’t logged in or registered. I will allow non users to access my shopping cart only if they have selected quantities, but users must be logged in to purchase. This is because I noticed that many online shopping sites do this so that users can keep track of their items, but in this case, users must be logged in or registered to officially make the purchase.

## Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary)

I personalize my UI by thanking the user with their name and I also include their email to ensure that the information will be sent to them. In order to achieve this, I will use cookies to store the user information. Then, I will request the cookie to get the customer’s name to display on the page.

## If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when?

I am not working with a partner.

## How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?

In Assignment 3, I definitely spent more time planning the visual aspect instead of going straight to the code. Although I attempted to experiment with code, I quickly realized that the best method was to analyze my own code to alter the code because the changes are very little since Assignment 3 has similarities to Assignment 2. I am also focusing more on the design to make the website more flexible and convenient to the user, this takes more thought than the previous assignment. I’m also looking at online sites that I shop at for inspiration and I also notice more details that I haven’t before as a consumer.
